CSIS~1800~Introduction to Computer and Information Sciences~3~An introductory course to study computer systems layer by layer. The material covers Information Layer, Hardware Layer, Programming Layer, Operating Systems Layer, Application Layer, and Communication Layer. Each layer is covered in great detail and the concepts are supplemented by real examples.~1.	Demonstrate deep understanding of the layers of a computing system 2.	Demonstrate deep understanding of Data Representation, Computing Components, Operating Systems, Databases, Artificial Intelligence and Expert Systems, and The World Wide Web as well as demonstrate familiarity on the latest technological developments in the world of computers 3.	Complete a series of assignments in order to gain experience with the following topics: Data Representation, Computing Components, Operating Systems, the World Wide Web, and programming concepts in a language neutral context and/or C++ 4.	Develop the awareness of ethical issues and technology's impact.
CSIS~2000~Introduction to Database Systems~3~This course will give students an introduction to the structured query language (SQL). The course introduces relational, object-oriented, distributed, and multimedia database systems. This course covers concepts and tools necessary to analyze a business scenario, then design and implement a database system that is in 3rd Normal Form. Students will build, populate, query, and write transactions for a relational database. The students also learn how to interface Web based data access via database connection using modern languages and tools. Prerequisite: CSIS 1800 or TECH 1800~1.	Demonstrate the understanding of database systems, which includes modeling and design principles as applied to the relational model 2.	Perform operations in the relational model including converting sub-class structures to relations, designing relational database schemas, algebraic structures and logic operations 3.	Demonstrate familiarity with simple queries in SQL as well as demonstrate understanding of system aspects of SQL 10 4.	Describe the basic principles of DBMS
CSIS~2050~Discrete Mathematics~3~An introduction to the concepts and techniques of discrete mathematical structures that are used in the theory and application of computer science and computer information systems. Topics covered include set theory, relations, functions, proof techniques, predicate logic, combinational and sequential logic and circuitry, recurrence relations, boolean algebra, graph theory, trees, and discrete probability. Prerequisite: MATH 1200.~1.	Perform the operations associated with sets, functions, and relations and relate practical examples to the appropriate set, function, or relation model, and interpret the associated 2.	Model real-life situations with combinational and sequential logic and circuitry including, select the type of proofs and use formal logic proofs to provide rigorous reasoning to real situations, and solve problems including those arising in computing contexts such as program correctness, database queries, and algorithms including recursion 3.	Model problems in computer science using graphs and trees, demonstrate understanding of traversal, and relate graphs and trees to data structures, algorithms, and counting 4.	Compute permutations, combinations, and discrete probabilities 5.	Determine the time and space complexity of algorithms 6.	Model discrete probability problems, understand events and conditional probability, apply binomial theorem to independent events and solve problems using Bayes theorem
CSIS~2101~Fundamentals of Computer Programming~4~This course provides an introduction to computer programming using a modern programming language. Major topics to be covered are: syntax, expressions, variables and data types, blocks and scope, input/output and file handling, conditional selection statements, loops and iteration statements, functions, pointers and arrays, classes, inheritance, and aggregation, all through program development. Prerequisite: MATH 1040~1.	Define and utilize the standard data-types and utility classes including, but not limited to, arrays, strings 2.	Write proper code blocks and correctly scope variables 3.	Implement I/O, functions, exceptions, decision making blocks, control structures and classes, to properly write code 4.	Write programs to solve a variety of objected oriented problems with multiple classes and objects 5.	Write test drivers to test code
CSIS~3020~Web Programming and Design~3~This course will introduce the essentials of Internet programming. Students will design and write WWW pages in HTML, JavaScript, and shell scripting languages. Programs will manipulate many forms of data, including hypertext, graphics, audio, and video. Students will develop interactive/executable Web pages. Other topics covered will include clickable image maps, cgi-bin scripting, and security. Prerequisite: CSIS 2100 or CSIS 2101.~1.	Demonstrate the understanding of the scripting languages 2.	Analyze problems and solve them efficiently 3.	Use dynamic programming
CSIS~3023~Legal and Ethical Aspects of Computers~3~This course focuses on issues that involve computer impact and related societal concerns. Topics covered include computer ethics, computer crime, software ownership, privacy risk management, professional codes, transborder data flow, Telecommunications Act of 1996, the national computer policies of other nations, and the status of regulation and emerging standards.~1.	Identify and analyze legal, ethical, social, and security issues related to network and stand-alone computer systems 2.	Demonstrate an understanding of basic legal processes and of computer misuse, fraud and the law 3.	Explain how regulations such as the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and industrial standards impact national and global computer interactions
CSIS~3101~Advanced Computer Programming~4~The course addresses advanced programming concepts that are specific to generic programming languages that require understanding of how data and objects are represented in memory. Pointers, overriding of data types and operators, dynamic memory allocation and management, reliable and secure programming issues and templates are discussed. Illustration of difference between structured programming and object oriented programming are discussed by examples. Prerequisites: CSIS 2101 or CSIS 2100~1.	Write programs that use dynamic memory allocation, indirection and pointers effectively 2.	Write programs with error event handling through exceptions 3.	Implement programs with properly written copy constructors 4.	Implement programs using abstracting construct such as templates
CSIS~3400~Data Structures~4~A course in fundamental data structures and their application. Advanced data structure concepts are developed including linked data representation, pointers, binary trees, B trees, AVL trees, queues, stacks, hashing, searching, directed and undirected graphs, and priority queues. Recursive algorithms are investigated. Quantitative analysis of algorithms is employed. Advanced sorts are studied and analyzed for order of magnitude. Abstract data types are introduced. Prerequisites: CSIS 2950 or CSIS 3100 or CSIS 3101 and CSIS 1400 or CSIS 2050.~1.	Implement data structures using Java 2.	Demonstrate understanding of how data structures operate 3.	Analyze and implement recursive algorithms 4.	Analyze algorithms and determine the order of magnitude 5.	Develop Java programs using a variety of sort algorithms
CSIS~3460~Object Oriented Design~3~This course provides an introduction to object oriented design using a modern OO friendly programming language. Objects, class implementations, types, aggregation, inheritance, and polymorphism will be covered. Complete OO software development paradigm, that includes preparing functional specifications using use cases, design and implementation will be introduced. Prerequisites: CSIS 2101 or CSIS 2100~1.	Design, implement, and test object oriented code for solving a variety of applications oriented problems 2.	Explain the object oriented design concept and related terminology, understand requirements of simple applications, and design object-oriented solutions 3.	Implement simple programs from a given design and/or a set of specifications 4.	Program error event handling through exceptions
CSIS~3500~Networks and Data Communication~3~This course provides an introduction to basic data communications and how the Internet and World Wide Web work. It develops the fundamentals essential to understand wired and wireless network topologies, connection-oriented and connection-less protocols, and routing. Students develop an understanding of how protocols are layered and the concepts of services available at each layer, as well as, how errors affect communication and various mechanisms to mitigate the errors. They will also learn how to appropriately apply various reliable and unreliable protocol based services to various high-level applications including text, data, images, speech, and video streams for both real-time and non-real-time communications. The course will introduce security related issues. It places specific emphasis on the TCP/IP protocol stack and the protocols that are currently critical. Prerequisites: CSIS 1800 or TECH 1800 and MATH 1040. (Description Last Updated: Fall 2014 (201520))~1.	Identify the fundamental differences between errors, delay and quality on various wired and wireless communications media, use analytical tools to determine these parameters and demonstrate the understanding of how protocols handle errors, either by detecting, forward-error-correcting, requesting retransmission, or by flow control 2.	Describe how protocols are layered, appropriately identify specific services available at each level and select the type of equipment required to provide services such as hubs, switches, bridges, routers, gateways and firewalls 3.	Identify different applications for connection-oriented and connectionless protocols, perform state-based analysis of connection-oriented protocols, explain how important protocols work to provide their services, and identify the function of each field in the protocol header and trailer fields with specific focus to addressing schemes 4.	Analyze Internet protocols and services including IP protocol, state-based TCP, UDP, Telnet, HTTP, DNS and SMTP protcols, by using protocol analysis tools 5.	Set up and analyze IP addressing schemes in a network with multiple layers of subnets in various topologies
